How to Customize your Linux Desktop (KDE Edition)

 In the past few months, I've received many questions on how I customize my
 desktop, from the application icons to the background wallpaper I use. So I
 thought I'd walk you through my process step by step.  If you've not yet setup
 your Linux desktop, I'd highly recommend watching my Gamer's Guide video for a
 full tutorial, as that covers the absolute essentials.

Before I get too deep into customization, I need to define some terminology. A
Linux desktop environment, or DE, is the graphical user interface that you
interact with. Unlike Windows, Linux separates its desktop environments from
the core operating system, so you can go ahead and select a DE from the dozens
available, or rock a 90s styled terminal interface. For this video, I'll be
using the KDE desktop environment, since it's well supported, has sane
defaults, and is easy to customize. Furthermore, I'm be using the manjaro linux
for this video. So if you use a different distribution, be sure to refer to it
documentation if you have any problems. That said, I won't be using the
terminal, so this shouldn't be much of an issue.

The next concept you need to know is GUI or widget toolkits. In short, these
are software libraries that control the look and feel of the applications you
use. The two main toolkits are QT and GTK, used by KDE and GNOME applications
respectively. Most people will have programs that use both of these libraries,
so you need to be familiar with them to keep desktop theming consistent.  

Now let's jump into to ricing. For the most part, KDE can be customized
entirely through its inbuilt settings menu. Just hit the super/windows key and
type in system settings. From here, go to the appearance submenu. Click on the
global themes tab and select the "Get new Global Themes" button. This will pull
up a list of available themes from KDE's website. I personally use Nordic on my
manjaro desktop, but for this video, I'll be using a virtual machine to setup
We10XOS, which marries Windows 10's user experience with Google's modern
material design. But feel free to experiment and select whichever theme you
like.

After you've finished downloading We10XOS, make sure you have it selected and
click the apply button. Do note that checking "use desktop layout from theme"
toggle will override your current desktop layout. Because we're mimicking the
look and feel of Windows 10, we want to do this for a more familiar layout, but
it's not always desireable.  

Do note that the global theme  only applies to your KDE desktop and QT
applications. To get parity in GTK programs like pamac or GIMP, you'll need to
go to the application style tab and click on the "Configure GTK Application
Style" button. To match We10XOS's appearance,  I'll be using the redstone
theme, but you can use whatever you find attractive. Click on the "Download New
GTK Application Styles" and select the GTK3 option. In the search bar, look for
redstone. Once you've finished downloading it, you need to select it in the
GTK2/3 dropdown menus and click apply. Then you need to go into the Window
Decorations submenu and make sure that We10XOS is selected. If not, click on it
then apply the changes.

Following that, go into colors tab and select Win10XOSConcept to match your
global theme, and click apply when ready.  Similarly, if you're using Nordic or
another theme, make sure the currently selected color scheme matches that. 

Next up, in the icons menu, you can select either of the We10X icon presets and
then click apply, depending on your preferences. Alternatively, if you're
trying to match my Manjaro desktop, you need to download the Zafiro icon pack.
Click on "Get New Icons" button and search for it there. Once Zafiro's done
downloading, select the variant you want to use and click apply. I personally
use the blue icons, but feel free to experiment. 


Finally, we can go into the cursors menu and select the We10XOS Cursors. To
match my manjaro cursor, you need to click on the "Get New Cursors" button and
search for Volantes. Once they're done downloading, click apply to set your
mouse cursor. You will need to logout or restart your computer for all of the
changes to apply, otherwise, your old cursor might appear in between
applications. 

Now, if you want to have a macOS styled dock in addition to a taskbar, similar
to what I have, go to your software center and install the latte dock. You can
then right click on the dock, and go into its settings menu to adjust the
positions or change animations. To move your taskbar, right click on it and
click on the "edit panel button", then navigate to its rightmost edge and click
on the "configure panel button". You can now adjust the height of the panel or
move it to a different screen edge using the appropriate buttons. 

At this point, you've got a basic desktop theme setup. Feel free to mess around
with it and add widgets to your taskbar. For We10XOS, I've replaced
the default start menu with the tiled menu widget I downloaded, but I honestly
prefer KDE's simple menu. To change your wallpaper, right click on the desktop
and select "customize desktop". You can then select the image you want to use.
We10XOS provides a default wallaper for its theme, so I'll be using that. 

Before I close off this video, I want to mention a fantastic community for
ricing your desktop. The unixporn subreddit is a great for getting help
or for showing off your desktop environment. There are some truly breathtaking
screenshots there, so check it out when you have the time.

Thank you very much for watching. I know I normally don't do Linux content very
often, but I needed to get my mind off of the Borderlands 3 video and write
something actually enjoyable. If you want to see me do a followup video on
customizing GNOME, let me know in the comments section. That said, it's not be
as straightforward, as it involves desktop extensions and the terminal. 

In the near future, there will be a video critique of Doom Eternal now that
Denuvo anti-cheat no longer bricks the game for me. If you'd like to keep up to
date with channel news, you can follow me on twitter @SquidTheSid1 or join the
Squidcord discord server. Finally, if you'd like to support the channel in
these troubling times and can afford to do so, you can contribute to my patreon
page at patreon.com/squidthesid.  

As always, stay frosty.
